---
title: "2023-09"
classes: wide
toc: true
---

# Browsers and Privacy

We must examine the best browsers based on two main factors:

1. Security: How well does the browser protect from bad actors
2. Privacy: How does the browser protect your privacy?

See <https://privacytests.org/> for an all-encompassing guide to browser privacy.

## LibreWolf: A private and secure fork of Firefox

As a lifelong user of Firefox this is pleasant news to me, LibreWolf is **a fork** of Firefox, from the its website:

> LibreWolf is designed to increase protection against tracking and fingerprinting techniques, while also including a few security improvements. This is achieved through our privacy and security oriented settings and patches. LibreWolf also aims to remove all the telemetry, data collection and annoyances, as well as disabling anti-freedom features like DRM.

<https://librewolf.net/docs/features/>
{: .notice--info}
{: style="text-align: center;"}

### Firefox extensions

Every day I isolate the websites I visit using these two very useful Firefox extensions.

1. **Firefox Multi-Account Containers**: Cookies are separated by container, allowing you to use the web with multiple accounts (and integrate Mozilla VPN) for an extra layer of privacy. <https://addons.mozilla.org/firefox/addon/multi-account-containers/>
2. **Temporary Containers**: Open tabs, websites, and links in automatically managed disposable containers which isolate the data websites store (cookies, storage, and more) from each other, enhancing privacy and security. <https://addons.mozilla.org/firefox/addon/temporary-containers/>

## Brave: The most well-known

It is a _Chromium-based_ browser that is fast, secure, and privacy-focused by default. It has a built-in ad blocker and browser fingerprinting protection.

Brave has received some criticism for its _ads program_. But a self-supporting company is not blackmailable and therefore can make choices that would be uncomfortable to a supporter.

<https://brave.com/privacy-features/>
{: .notice--info}
{: style="text-align: center;"}